<!-- TOC -->

- [1. 背景](#1-背景)
    - [1.1 unstructured informer 解决的是什么issues](#11-unstructured-informer-解决的是什么issues)
        - [1.1.1 尝试解决方案：在tf-Operator中验证对应字段](#111-尝试解决方案在tf-operator中验证对应字段)
        - [1.1.2 使用Unstructured informer 解决过程](#112-使用unstructured-informer-解决过程)
- [2. argo](#2-argo)

<!-- /TOC -->

# 1. 背景
* Package unstructured is the package for unstructured informer
Pytorch-Operator为什么需要这个结构呢？
unstructured informer是为了解决issues https://github.com/kubeflow/tf-operator/issues/561

## 1.1 unstructured informer 解决的是什么issues
* I submitted a job with an invalid spec (container args contained integrs and not strings). The job was created but it was never started and the status was never updated. Furthermore, I think this blocked the TFJob operator from processing any other jobs. 

### 1.1.1 尝试解决方案：在tf-Operator中验证对应字段
失败原因如下：关键是比容易对$ref字段进行验证

It is hard to validate the config using the feature crd validation since we have podtemplatespec in the definition. The feature does not support $ref, podtemplatespec heavily uses $ref. If we want to check it, we need to get the OpenAPI schema and have a hack on it, which I think is not what we want.

### 1.1.2 使用Unstructured informer 解决过程
* I wrote a unstructured.Unstructured informer which watches Unstructured objects of the argoproj.io/v1alpha1 workflow API resource type. Then I convert unstructured object to workflow objects using runtime.DefaultUnstructuredConverter.FromUnstructured. If this fails to convert, I now can update the workflow with a proper error message indicating the spec was invalid.

# 2. argo
上面方法解决问题关键因素是利用了argo。
Argo is implemented as a kubernetes controller and Workflow Custom Resource. Argo itself does not run an API server, and with all CRDs, it extends the Kubernetes API server by introducing a new API Group/Version (argorproj.io/v1alpha1) and Kind (Workflow). When CRDs are registered in a cluster, access to those resources are made available by exposing new endpoints in the kubernetes API server. For example, to list workflows in the default namespace, a client would make an HTTP GET request to: 
```
https://<k8s-api-server>/apis/argoproj.io/v1alpha1/namespaces/default/workflows
```
argo 理解，见k8s/重要基础知识




